Joe Mellon is an author and professor
emeritus from Temple University she has
written 24 books among them a farewell
to justice our man in Haiti and the
great game in Cuba which explore the
history of the Central Intelligence
Agency and its role in the planning and
cover-up of the Kennedy assassination
her latest book is blood in the water
how the US and Israel conspired to
ambush the USS Liberty and that will be
released in November of this year we're
going to talk today about the Supreme
Court case garrison versus Louisiana the
oral arguments are available as mp3's
from the National Archives and we'll
play them after this for people who are
interested but I think the interesting
part here will be hearing Joan Mellon
who is the biographer of Jim Garrison
she wrote a book called Jim Garrison his
life and times and Joan will give us the
context of the court case and maybe tell
us a little bit about Jim Garrison's
tenure as New Orleans District Attorney
before the Kennedy case came along
Thank You Joan for for speaking with us
today has actually asked to talk about
the garrison versus Louisiana and it's
the most amusing and interesting and the
chance Garrison's character and his
beliefs and what kind of person he was
and this is all before the Kennedy
assassination what do people say who is
jim garrison has been criticized so much
he's been but even by people who were
supposed investigators of the kennedy
assassination
such as while name one is Peter Dale
Scott who lied about garrison for 50
years and said that garrison was
attached to the Mafia but if you look at
the life of garrison in the cases and
what he did you see then he had nothing
to do with the Mafia whatsoever never
took money from anybody and and there
were dozens of people that can confirm
that he didn't care about money he paid
me spend money whatever he's following
and he never had any money in his pocket
when he went out with somebody they had
to pay and that was just the way he was
just like so the whole idea that's just
so wrong
now there was things were going on in
New Orleans I'm not saying no but
getting that not as garrison was aware
so I'm always aware of them and so it
shouldn't be surprising to anyone that
this district attorney in New Orleans
should suddenly drop everything drop all
is tasteless and devote himself to the
Kennedy assassination because he was a
person of principle
and morality and he cared more about the
First Amendment than he did about any
money or any whatever was going on
anymore she didn't care he didn't care
about anything and we can see that proof
of that is the whole story of garrison
versus Louisiana's so thrilled that it's
actually on tape now and people can
listen to it and it's also it's very
funny because the whole thing was filled
with garrison sardonic humor there's a
attack on the eight judges of the
Criminal Court maybe let's start with
what yeah what was going on in New
Orleans
that kind of brought the whole thing up
and then we can talk about actually what
caused the contrasting perfect because
when garrison took office in a in 1962
he decided that he was going to make his
mark by cleaning up the French Quarter
and they were fleecing people got it
getting people drunk taking money from
people whatnot in the clubs his various
clubs and women were weird and seducing
men within to be drinking be drinking
means drinking for the bar and garrison
and his office staff decided that they
was going to clean up these clubs and
closing for him had locked them and and
and make the quarter I'm a safer place
for people now didn't turn out quite
that way but that was what that was what
garrison and also forced to make a name
for his office as he was in the new
district attorney at that at that very
moment so he got involved with how do
you finance this because for example he
headed so he had to pay investigators
from an attempt to come in after a while
because people investigators it came
from the office got to be known in the
clubs so when you could see them coming
then
you would clean up and you wouldn't be
doing these crimes and and you couldn't
get anyone so how do you finance it so
garrison this youth there was something
called the fines and forfeitures fund if
you don't pay up your bail bond or if
your assessed a fine in court into a pot
that was supervised by the eight judges
of the criminal court and garrison would
apply for this money in order to fund
these investigations now previously any
crime that was investigated or was not
investigated was done by the police
department
so garrison his office then took on the
role of the of being a stabbing what's
the word to the staff car like
constables and nobody giving them that
right to do that so there was a big
fight with these judges who were corrupt
who were using this money for themselves
and heir-apparent and garrison got into
a fight with them over this he all day
he also wanted to the office that he
inherited from Richard gowing his
predecessor filthy oak furniture
broken-down dirty carpets and he decided
he was going to refurbish the office at
the expense of the fines and forfeitures
form and he he was not scrupulous in
getting bids from various places
whatever it's not that he took money
it's just that he didn't he didn't abide
by these norms so garish so he was used
to give him the money the judges refuse
to hand it over and Garrison Gotland a
gun he used to press that was one of the
things that he did whatever he did
including the Kennedy investigation use
the press on his own behalf
so ghost has a big goes to a luncheon I
think it was a been a dress or some
lunch and then he attacked the judges
and he called them the sacred cows like
the sacred cows of India they could do
no no one criticized them no matter what
they did they were not answerable to
anyone and he called in the sacred cows
of India then he said that they had they
would check
they gave him two Racketeer Influenced
now that suppose the fighting words in
that day that they were controlled by
racketeers which they were so he said
that and then he accused them of being
vacant minded and they they celebrated
he garrison humor they celebrated human
Wong's birthday they celebrated
something called Winterbottom day I
don't know what that is a very
exaggerated on that he also said that
they didn't work on Friday especially
the leader of these judges with whose
name was Bernard Kok so this was very
funny everybody is laughing and the
judges at demanded it was an apology
from Gareth and he refused to give it
and that was what went up to the moment
when they sued him for criminal
defamation that was how this Dartmouth
so he's enjoying the whole thing they
actually go to court on this now
garrison had a week wrinkles that we had
as chief investigator was a former
police officer and criminal type is the
word that used in those days called
Pershing surveys and they they use that
as a as a weapon but didn't work Ireson
just didn't care and they went to court
and garrison had a very upright very
interesting lawyer called Donald V Orden
and he was first born and very upright
so he goes to court every one of the
judges hated them take the stand
well while garrison is sitting at the
table he writes a play they certainly a
Shakespeare he was very interested in
Shakespeare he wanted to be his main
ambition was to be a writer and he wrote
three books in his day but he so he's
writing a play called King James the
first and it has to do with eight
noblemen Nate all they sent each one on
an individual judge who were corrupt and
were against King James sets himself and
he got a : Shakespearean style with
hilarious it's really good so anyway
it's available in the garrison paper
and the National Archives if anybody
wants to see that so he's writing this
play and he was the case they blame they
may bring up surveys and his problems
and he loses don't forget he's in the
he's not in control of the courts and
there was the judges I have friends
everywhere in arts he loses he appeals
and then he just doesn't bother him
meanwhile in the course of this he he
garrison had a mentor called Everhart
Deutsch the first person that he worked
for when he was a lawyer and what
dortch's was very highly placed
influenced friends among the justices of
the United States Supreme Court
so garrison has to tell Donald v
organisms who had written up the whole
case up to this point that he liked ever
heard Doge to argue the cases well first
of all had to get surgery re right and
and this was very interesting for
garrison that in March of 1964 the
United States Supreme Court passed you
know New York Times versus Sullivan and
that's a very big case in which which
which guaranteed the right to criticize
people and press in the press so long as
there was no malice standard that now
was malice and malice aforethought
no no Garrison's case it is a coda to
this case because Garrison's case was
that you should have the right to
criticize public officials like the
judges the judges were public officials
and that was part of it was part of the
state these are expansions of First
Amendment rights so under justices were
very happy to get the garrison case
because it fit right in this is a Warren
Court now there are warrants shortly to
supervise the Warren Commission is the
Chief Justice and among the others are
William Douglas very interesting liberal
people and William Brennan the great
First Amendment lawyer so this goes
there to Washington
Pepa heart Deutsch pays him $5,000 so he
can go to Washington he had no money
nothing and he's sitting there looking
and he says he looked at the justices
from the United States Supreme Court and
he says three with district attorneys so
I had three this is Harrison
I had three going in and his friend
Robert hey HOH aik went with them and
said you lost after that you may hear
the arguments you lost and of course he
didn't win the city anyone and the
majority opinion was written by William
Brennan it was one of his great opinions
among First Amendment cases now the
person who represented the state of
Louisiana in the case of Cole Jack P
Graham million it's a real country
bumpkin yes well at one point he called
the case of grave so Garrett says this
was Hungary Russia or someplace gasps
and it would be would be grave but this
is America having forgotten the First
Amendment and of course grrah million
was a kind of ridiculous figure but he
was well planted he was a protege of the
brother of Huey Long called her along a
big figure in Louisiana during that time
and long was said about grinnellian this
is a great quote I couldn't resist if
you want to hide anything from my
attorney general the million was the
Attorney General if you want to hide
anything from my Attorney General just
put it in a law book when Garrett and
what garrison commented at the time was
about the things that he said about the
judges people say worse things about
President Kennedy every day and of
course how would he know and that
Kennedy was just surely gonna die and
all the rest that would follow right so
people told me about that I was no
business at the Supreme Court grammarian
goes in there his pants failing that
reaches ankles and Garrison's lawyer
that's my heart Dortch you know had a
vest and pinstripes
fancy very fancy and that's who well
here just so people know that's it's not
going to be Jim Garrison or anything
doing these arguments it's going to be
torch and ger million George for
garrison and Jack P s grinnellian also
called general
and when when abroad or when interested
in family court he said hello to all the
justices as if he were a personal friend
of theirs and when he said to the when
grinnellian said the justices have been
criticized for syphilis ly in my state
and he was referring not to the justices
but to judge Jake's Kelley right who
when ordered does this very moment the
desegregation of you can imagine how the
Supreme Court felt because they were
supporting their own decision of Brown
versus Board of Education and here's
this guy it just was perfect for
garrison the Warren Court and they were
liberals and garrison was a liberal so
there wasn't going to be any he had he
had he had a lot for on his own on his
side one of the interesting things about
William Brennan's opinion on this case
had to do with his statements I'll read
it
erroneous statement is inevitable in
free debate it must be protected the
freedom of expression is to have
breathing space just arrived and that
and that really means the issue of libel
it doesn't depend on whether you're
erroneous you're an that you can you
can't be accused of defamation if you
make a mistake if your if your statement
is erroneous you still have the right to
make that statement and William Bell was
said in a concurring argument it is a
commonplace of life that heat and
passion suddenly turned to malice in
actual fact you know and and Garrison's
utterances did not meet the rigorous
standard and malicious intent that's
part of me no New York Times versus
Sullivan but you needed the Warren Court
to have
very enlightened views and I don't think
we'd get those views today you know I
don't think so and I think these are
very distinguished people and Thurgood
Marshall wasn't even on the court yet
but and so that's how that's really the
background for the garrison versus
Louisiana
another thing that garrison did that I
want to mention is when he went as
District Attorney one of the whites with
a quote citizens councils attacked a
junior high school civics teacher for
using max learners book America as a
civilization and he was accused of
communist philosophy and Garrison
refused to prosecute that case people
forget about what he really was love or
say ever knew maybe they didn't know
that really he was that was what he was
most interested in as District Attorney
to protect the rights of people you
never would have thought none of this
was predictable in the Louisiana of that
day which was corrupt which was filled
with graft and under the table and all
of this but garrison never took money
and he he really was a man of principle
and he used the office of District
Attorney to support his principles he
for example he prosecuted the cases
where Klan bombed people they didn't
like Ku Klux Klan and these would
usually never prosecute it garrison
prosecuted another case that was related
to this was the case in the double-baked
bookstore the police went into the
Doubleday bookstore and they arrested
the a manager of the store for obscenity
because he was selling we James
Baldwin's novel another country and so
forth and so and Garrison it would
Hannah had a very strong reputation he
also of course had to black vote in in
the warrants because she was always fair
to everyone and he was not a racist
was born in the south he was born in
Iowa and his father and mother they were
not from the south either
now his mother took him and his sister
when he was a child to New Orleans she
was divorced from the father and she was
trying to earn a living there and and so
that's how he grew up in New Orleans it
wasn't because he hadn't that you didn't
come out of that culture so he was a
warrior he was you know he was a kind of
an outsider as a kid and also poor very
very poor and this is the foundation of
the person that you see in the Kennedy
assassination investigation because why
would he do it
and nobody might understand that he he
would do it because it was he said it
was in my jurisdiction right well it's
interesting to compare him it's
interesting to compare him and his
attitude towards justice with someone
like Henry Wade we've all seen and who
we all know has had so many of his
convictions overturned and was basically
a hangman and was this kind of brutal
Southern District Attorney compared to
Jim Garrison who the way you show him
180 degrees absolutely no comparison
penniless garrison was a man of
principle he gave wrong speech he gave a
lot of talks during his day and one of
them had to do with the First Amendment
itself it says he compared the First
Amendment to patients in an oxygen tent
and the oxygen is cut off and you
constantly have to revive it and you
have to do you want to talk a little bit
about what some of those judges he was
up against were like you said they were
pretty corrupt Bernard Kok was the worst
he never was in on Fridays he did what
he pleased he used to come to the office
to the bench naked under his robes it
was very hot and that wasn't was an
air-conditioned and he just did did when
he pleased he couldn't stand purging
sherbets he couldn't
who was really was corrupt was a
terrible person terrible but he wasn't
cut so judge Kok was the leader of the
group
but then there were others some of them
ordinary some of them I can't remember
all of them but I sort of discuss them
all racists needless to say and anyone
like Haggerty was among the group later
presided over the Clay Shaw case and the
judges were also they were drunks and
they dependent upon the police to
protect them so in other words if the
police spotted one of these drunks out
on the streets they would put him in the
in the police car and drive them home to
protect their reputations so that was
another side of it say we're not great
friends I'm Jim Garrison's ever but he
what garrison was kind of a shock to the
system because he as you describing in
your book a little bit he basically came
in he won he beat the old da based on
this this televised debate I mean he was
almost completely outside the system and
they didn't know what to do with them
basically well one of the biggest parts
of the system was his bail bonds
corruption and Garrison couldn't you
know didn't take any money from anybody
he wasn't supported by any political
party was the first District Attorney
never to be supported by a party
democrat or republican and that meant
that when he got elected he could you
know wasn't if he wasn't beholden to
anyone and he acted that way even though
he wouldn't prosecute sex crimes for
example and that what they call crimes
against nature which meant homosexuality
what people who said that he saw because
he was gay is just not true but then
eventually didn't know it but it didn't
make any difference chance had nothing
to do with it and he never he made a
rule in the office never to mention clay
show us sexual preferences
in court in any way in any papers or any
anybody I think you know when you look
at it he was not perfect he was not a
perfect person as he himself said what
he was framed by Pershing Gervaise for
taking bribes from pinball operators it
was illegal to pay off on a pinball game
with the bartender in a bar and so he
was money was planted and Pershing was
somehow involved in with this and
Pershing eventually taped him and they
doctored the tapes Pershing went to
Canada on a witness protection and
garrison was accused of corruption went
to court a federal crime and there was a
reporter in the New Orleans called
rosemary James I think she's still have
but maybe not still a reporter anyway
she just smelled the story she went up
to Canada and she interviewed Pershing
sherbets and he admitted to her that he
had lied and he he planted this money in
Garrison's desk and he never garrison
them as never did this
so garrison eventually was acquitted and
he had a fire his own lawyer eventually
he represented himself and he cost him a
lot because he was exhausted and seen
him on a campaign he was up to
reelection and he didn't want to get was
in a sense I think seventy two or three
he didn't want to campaign and he liked
to campaign at all ever and so he lost
by twenty-two hundred votes so the
person who succeeded him that was a
father Evans what was that fun folk
singer Harry Connick senior Connie yeah
Harry Connick so Harry Connick gave out
cufflinks with the number twenty two
hundred written on them to stands for
the twenty two hundred votes that's how
he keep what he he defeated garrison and
that's how garrison lost his office well
once garrison lost his office he could
no longer pursue prosecuting you know
pursue investigate the Kennedy case
she was relying on the office and
investigators and he can't assume the
office so that he had to do it much more
slowly he never gave up investigating
but that was about the end of it tell us
about your latest book blood in the
water
so it was in 1967 during the six-day war
the ship was the USS Liberty which was a
surveillance ship that it was it was
unarmed it only had a couple of machine
guns on the deck it didn't have any it
could not defend himself weren't
attacked and they're floating along
there in the eastern Mediterranean and
the Soviet ships all around and that's
part of the book but um suddenly on the
morning rather in the afternoon of June
8th in 1967 mister Mirage planes jet
planes with machine guns and rockets and
then other planes from East Air these
are French planes with napalm where'd
they get the napalm and they threw the
napalm on the deck and they start firing
on anything that moves
sailors anyone standing around would get
shot hmm and the place is a bloodbath
and it was very lucky that one sailor
that was the sailor in charge of the
antenna they had all these antenna on
deck and the Israeli planes the planes
were unmarked they were blacked over so
you couldn't speak to what country even
though it's a violation of international
law not to identify yourself it's marked
out black and they one antenna is not
escapes okay I destroyed and there was
one sailor called how far da Terrence
he'll party and he manages to hook it up
to whatever it is that they get hooked
up to and they managed to call out an
SOS and reaches six weeks and and as a
result the plan was for the Israelis to
it sink the ship and everyone on it and
then and they were going to then blame
Egypt because CIA various fricos in CIA
like James Angleton and others were
they they had it in for an answer they
when they saw Nasser is a big threat to
the United States and so they were gonna
blame Egypt for all of this and then
bomb Cairo and it's really not known
nobody knows there's no proof nobody has
known that they in fact send planes to
bomb Cairo and at the last minute the
SOS goes out the Israelis happened they
realized that they've been discovered
and so they have to call back the planes
from Cairo there was seven minutes from
Target had it go call back to the Sixth
Fleet and then but meanwhile the sixth
fleet one there was one honorable
captain called captain Tully and he sent
planes to the Liberty to help them hmm
because he heard the attack on radio and
then Lyndon Johnson twice and you know
once McNamara once Johnson call back the
rescue planes so nobody goes to rescue
the Liberty and then they obeyed their
Trek along story short they overnight
they were all alone there pleading dying
they have one just one doctor on the
ship for three hundred men and nobody
comes to their rescue until the next day
this is all covered up and Lyndon
Johnson directly get on the phone and
said call back those players why did he
do that well that's the story what
happened why was Johnson in the middle
of all this and then nobody and Israel
has covered up it's not that the United
States covered up for Israel if Israel
has covered up for the United States
took the blame they said that it was an
accident they made a mistake they
thought it was an Egyptian freighter
with horses that many carried horses and
a bunch of nonsense why would they
attack the ship with all these antenna
and satellite dish and everything else
if it were Egyptian horse Freight but
anyway they didn't care what anyone saw
it as they even to this day they don't
and and so you know there's going to be
I suppose I don't really care who says
what and I'm like garrison now but
they're gonna attack me for this but I
mean that the proof is its unmistakable
and I even found a great piece of
evidence
which I'll share why not and that was in
the report of the Joint Chiefs the Joint
Chiefs sent out a team to investigate
this firing on the USS Liberty and in
the course of that report which is
available in the National Archives you
will see that the whole censorship into
being in harm's way up there there was
no reason for the ship to be in the AC
stead in the middle of the six-day war
and we find out that the person who was
directly in charge of placing the ship
with Cyrus Vance who was a close
operative of Lyndon Johnson and was
assistant district just a defense
secretary his name is in there yes they
should have redacted that see but they
should be you know such a woman's
redacting sometimes something slips
through and and and then and the truth
comes out she has to work years in and
year out and read everything and fire
look at every document and then
sometimes you get the truth so and and
James angleton was involved in CI I
chose I have the practically
conversation that led to the firing on
the ship it was that was a head of the
Mossad Meyer a neat a MIT Mei RMA a MIT
Meyer lead and he came to the United
States a few days before the six-day war
started and guessing the first person
was whom he saw an old friend of his
that was called James Hamilton it was
only after angleton was much more
important in that study that Amy 20z
Director of Central Intelligence hmm
that was Richard Helms but in later
years Helms came out publicly very rare
for Helms and said it was not a mistake
it was not an accident it was deliberate
and he wasn't very indignant about the
whole thing giving away anything so I
had fun with that
okay so that and that comes out in
November comes out at the end of
November the publish I'll give the name
of the publisher Prometheus books great
well we look forward to that definitely
well thank you very much for talking I
really appreciate it and now here is the
audio of garrison V Louisiana it's
actually in two parts each is a little
more than an hour long the first one is
from April 22nd 1964 and the second hour
is from October 19th 1964
[Music]
number four
Garrison's Jim Garrison McCullen versus
Louisiana
[Music]
[Applause]
mr. Deutsch Chief Justice may it please
the court
it will be recalled that the appellant
in this case is in the district are
prosecuting attorney for the parish of
Orleans which is coextensive with the
city of New Orleans that when he took
office something over two years ago he
launched an attack on a backlog of
criminal cases a warning awaiting trial
and at the same time embarked on a
campaign against commercialized vice in
the Bourbon Street District of New
Orleans that a dispute arose between
himself and the judges of the Criminal
Court after he had been in office for
some time as to his use of certain funds
for these in vice investigation
conditions that the judges adopted a
rule that five of them would have to
concur in approving his vouchers for
these expenses as against the statute
which provided that any one judge could
do it that they then adopted a further
rule allowing him no further expenses
for that purpose out of this fund that a
recently retired judge made a derogatory
statement concerning him which was
published in the press that he was asked
to by reporters if he had any comment to
make and in reply made the statement
which is the issue of this criminal
proceeding for defamation under the
Louisiana defamation statute he stated
that the judges were themselves
responsible for the backlog of cases
that they were not working that they
were taking excessive vacations that
they were endeavoring specifically to
block his in
stations of commercialized vice which
quote raises interesting questions about
the racket their influences on our
vacation minded judges and this
proceeding arose out of that on a
petition by the judges to the Attorney
General of the state requesting him to
institute criminal proceedings charges
against the appellant under the
Louisiana criminal defamation statute
and on the same day that he did that the
Supreme Court of Louisiana appointed a
judge from another district to hear the
case trial by jury was denied motion for
trial by jury was denied under the
Louisiana statute which provides that
juries are not to be used in misdemeanor
cases this being a misdemeanor and his
police properly presented under the
first and Fourteenth Amendments were
overruled he was found guilty and the
judge said that he would be less than
frank if he did not say that the
defamatory statement might not have been
issued without some provocation and
under the mitigating circumstances as
the judge put it find levied a fine of
$1,000 or in the alternative a jail
sentence of four months
predicated on a federal constitutional
claim yeah well it was on the Federal
Constitution yes because the Louisiana
Constitution specifically provides that
you may not have a jury and I mean in
terms was it it was it was predicated on
the sixth amendment actually it should
probably have been predicated on the
first and fourteenth that's the position
we take here the Supreme Court of
Louisiana did specifically fast on the
point that it was not necessary to
furnish a jury in this case under the
first and Fourteenth Amendment the
Supreme Court of Louisiana affirmed the
conviction passing only specific
constitutional issues which have been
raised and relying primarily on this
court's opinion in Beauharnais versus
Illinois that libelous utterances are
not within the area of constitutionally
protected speech the appellate skilar
office yes they are the judges and he
have made up if that's of any interest
at least to six of them they're getting
along fine now and look this capability
no point to the calendar situation
improved I understand it has been that
it's very difficult to furnish adequate
statistics or the netiquette asking that
question myself and it was the for
instance the result of this vais
campaign has increased the docket
considerably and to make it up
statistics which are meaningful is
difficult there are still many cases on
the docket but that there have been many
more cases tried than ever before for
the first time in history the judges are
now holding court regularly on Fridays
which they were not doing their holdings
they're trying jury cases at times when
they were not trying them before they
have cut down this vacation period which
the record shows arose in 1921 before
there was air conditioning
in New Orleans it was just too difficult
to get these cases tried in a non
air-conditioned courtroom that now the
courtrooms were air-conditioned but
empty well the jail's not
air-conditioned we're filling up rapidly
and so on and so on that condition has
improved tremendously election partner
mr. garrison been stood election been
reelected very little he remains you
know he was elected I think for four
years and his term has only run
something over two years at this time
now in the there have been other
elections down there in which he's been
involved as between the judges and
himself
I suppose that may be an answer to your
question he's been successful
he said popular support for this
campaign now the in this new york times
case the bullhorn a case was at least
distinguished for the statement that the
Constitution does not protect libelous
publications do not that is that the
statement in the Beauharnais case to
that effect do not foreclose inquiry
into cases which might involve the use
of libel laws to impose sanctions upon
expressions critical of the official
conduct of public official now that
brings up something that's not in the
briefs just happened a few days ago if
there's been another or there have been
two other prosecutions in Louisiana
under this statute very recently one of
the cases or at least a forerunner of
one of those cases is on this Court's
docket
I think it's numbers 24 and 49 that come
as a part of this a set of cases now Cox
versus the state of Louisiana now rising
out of that case the Supreme Court of
Louisiana a few days ago denied a
rehearing and I think this is
particularly significant in to cases
involving prosecutions under this same
defamation statute a Negro minister was
stated to have defamed a court that is a
judge and the district attorney in Baton
Rouge Louisiana by casting aspersions on
the courts conduct with regard to a
prosecution of Negroes and he was
prosecuted under the defamation statute
convicted find in each case the full
limit of the allowed under the statute
of $3,000 plus one year in jail on each
case making two years plus $6,000 and
then required to serve an additional two
years if he didn't pay the $6,000 now
the case came up to the Supreme Court
which wrote a considerable dissertation
on the effect of this Court's decision
in the New York Times case stating that
it's defamation statute was entirely
valid and this prosecution was entirely
valid under that statute but reversing
then after that in a short part of the
decision reversed the decision on the
ground that the district attorney had
not recused himself because he was in a
sense a party to this prosecution what
I'm getting at is that this is being
used this statute is being used the
number 24 and 49 on the docket of this
Court right now is the case out of which
this prosecution group the citation of
the case is a state of Louisiana versus
[ __ ] eox be open [ __ ] which is 24
no no well the fryer case is number 24
the case out of which the prosecution
are all the prosecution for cases that
we have on the argument list hard week
them you speaking of the cockatrice on
the argument list this week right that
demonstration before the courthouse that
does not bring up this defamation
prosecutor I think he said it grew out
of that it that's correct so there's
been since a Supreme Court decision
bearing on the use of the defamation
effect well actually directly involving
the defamation a lot better now that
opinion is number well it was decided on
June 8 1964 it's number four seven oh
one eighth of the docket of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana yet published
rehearing was denied October 7 just 10
days ago for 701 eight worthy well if
you all will give me time I arrived in
the United States yesterday morning from
a long absence and I will put this in
the forum if you like of a supplemental
brief enjoy the attorney general of
indicating we can get it there must be
copies available I have only one copy
I'll be glad to print it up and follow
for the court it's necessary but it it
demonstrates I submit the frightful use
to which the statute of this of this
sort can be put a man is sentenced to
two years in jail to pay a fine of six
thousand dollars in an additional two
years if he doesn't pay the $6,000
because he used language however strong
it may have been reflecting on the judge
and district attorney and it happens to
involve the identical statute now
James I I skim over a great deal of this
simply in the hope of getting questions
we've been through it from top to bottom
I think I call attention to the fact
that James Madison who literally drew
the First Amendment with his own hand
said that it would be a mockery to state
that you could not have laws preventing
publications and still have laws
punishing them when may our position is
simply certainly for the purpose of this
case that when a statute of this sort is
used and support seditious libel it is
invalid under the first and Fourteenth
Amendment now we could go further of
course and apply it to all libel I could
go further and say that a jury trial is
an indispensable necessity under the due
process clause of the fourteenth carried
over from the sixth just as this Court
has recently been rendering its
decisions taking the federal bill of
rights under the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment that a jury
trial is just as much necessary as a
matter of due process in a state court
as it is in a federal court I don't have
to do that in this case because in my
opinion the history of prosecutions for
contempt clearly indicate that a man is
entitled to a trial by jury on a
defamation charge even if such a
defamation charge may be made at all
with regard to a public official well
what's your definition of seditious
libel putting a very succinctly
defamation of a government official the
public even in his personal capacity
well
perhaps not but it's almost impossible
to separate the two for instance if I
say one of the judges of this Court took
a bribe that reflects on his both as
official in his personal character if I
say the racketeering influences are
brought to bear effectively on a judge I
don't think you can separate that from
his personal upon hell what have you
said what have you said in the same
breath that he's a very fine judge but
he's a notorious adulterer well I would
take it to the dollar II is not a
characteristic of judges and accordingly
would be would refer to his personal
rather than his judicial capacity I
think you've got the extreme I would
think not that I can concede that I sort
of used my imagination enough that it
might have something to do with the case
he was trying or something of that sort
but by and large I think there is a
distinction but I there is a very broad
shadows on I put it that way it's
awfully hard to say that a judge in is
subject to racketeering influence and
then say in the same breath that that
does not refer to a sufficiently fast I
wouldn't I can't conceive with that
[Music]
No
may I discuss that briefly for a moment
you will find references to that all
through his opinion and his route
he admitted evidence to show malice of
prior statements subsequent statements
and so on its own this most recent
decision probably goes a little further
it's an analysis of the New York Times
case as applied to this case and takes
about eight or ten pages to do that and
then says we reverse anyway I mean it's
dictum clearly
[Music]
that that is my position period but I
don't have to go that far to win my
clients case if I can do it now there
was no actual malice within the meaning
of this of The Times case and I would
like to quote a few words from the trial
judge's opinion which I don't think her
in the brief there on page 633 of the
record what he said was I cannot believe
that this man could have had an honest
belief that what he was saying was true
he said that and then he said however
even were it conceded for the purposes
of argument that he did have a
reasonable belief as to the truth of the
statement I am still of the opinion that
the state has proved actual malice
he's got a complete contradiction
insofar as this Court's statement in The
Times case goes the actual malice
involves a necessary knowledge that his
statement was untrue or a reckless
disregard of the truth six three three
[Music]
so what mellotts but the conviction
would be valid would it under your
theory well I don't think no no it if I
understand you correctly sir on there
was merit that the court fifth court
felt it was no it this day I still save
it under the first and Fourteenth
Amendment there can be no such thing as
seditious libel I would go further with
Mr Justice black but I don't have to for
this case
[Music]
under the first important
I don't make that statement I'm willing
to make it I believe it but for the
purpose of this sake there may be I say
for the purpose of this case you know
[Music]
that's it that's my statement for the
purpose of this case I'm willing to go
further these criminal libel laws are
now being used as I've demonstrated in
the brief and the Columbia Law Review
article I may have private it is my made
a public official recover damages them
for damages
for the liable of the public official
because military killer he can make the
showing of mouth actual malice as
defined by this court he may under the
latest decision of the majority of this
court recover that the vast difference
between using these statutes for
blackmail
in criminal prosecution although when
you start giving judgments for half a
million dollars there are three million
dollars you're doing even worse I
suppose except for the jail sentence
part you're going worse than the fines
which are always we suggested something
like that at times a finger times a bit
you said be a different rule on it come
across people hardly the time drew would
not apply you say criminal prosecution
okay the overall rule of the times case
does not apply to a criminal prosecution
that there may be no such thing as a
criminal prosecution for defamation of a
public official under the first and
Fourteenth Amendment what you're saying
is an actual malice test as we defined
actual malice at times would not say
they criminal prosecution if it's for
defamation of a public official I do
that on the ground that that's a
seditious libel or and that whatever may
be the status of civil libel see the
First Amendment recluse and the criminal
part I do say that and I add to it as an
anchor to windward that there was no
proof of actual malice in the sense in
which this court defined it in this case
anyway well actually doesn't fit a mic
forgotten but I had the impression that
this statute makes truth no defense if
in fact the defamatory statement is made
with ill-will doesn't it
in this new you'll find a rather lengthy
discussion of that point that is correct
but you will find a discussion of it in
this
latest decision which I have just given
you the Supreme Court a little easier
just wondering if on the face of it to
that extent this statute isn't
inconsistent assuming now that you times
actual malice test applies criminal
prosecution isn't this statute on its
face inconsistent with that Constitution
I don't think there is a slightest
question about it on that truth point
there's no question whatever it was
now of course there's no proof of truth
of this charge in this particular case
I'm just writing be sure I understand
your point is it that there that the
first and Fourteenth Amendment protects
anyone from prosecution who libels or
slanders any public official in any
manner well I'd say that for this
purpose and I don't want to get into
your adulterant case I mean I don't want
to get a say on the attention you say
he's that he's a certainly inherited
councilman that has a government of
thing but he cheats on the golf course
he cheats his friends every Saturday
when he plays golf well again you're
within that shadow zone because a mana
do that doesn't fit the whole public
office
you see the shadow zone is so broad to
me that there is almost no way of
separating a man's personal character
from his public character if he has a
bad personal character he's not fit to
serve the public I can't go all the way
with you I mean there are some things
that let's say gentlemen don't call vice
other's do I say you can get way off on
a tangent on this question and I'm
trying to avoid that
but when you speak in realities as we're
doing in this case about stating that a
judge is subject to racketeer influences
a judge is subject you're not saying
John Doe then the judges of this court
are subject to Racketeer Influenced
you're not off even in the shadows oh
that's clearly in his public official
his capacity as a public official
what there is be contrary to just
diffuses position in near wouldn't it
yes the opinion of this Court is
contrary to that sir that victim of mr.
Chief Justice used in the near case was
clearly overruled in The Times case I
read that actual language it says those
decisions no longer the the beauharnais
and other decision saving libel chief
justice you said that the public
official always has his remedy under the
civil and criminal libel laws that's the
effect of what he said now this court
said in the times case that that doesn't
hold anymore oh I thought we said it
ever that it is civil to the extent that
those proof of actual malice as we
defined it well sir let me read what it
says
I'll get the I think it was me
I know York Times case this Court held
that its prior statements in the
Beauharnais and other cases includes the
NIR and they're all they're all listed
in the footnote and including the earth
to the effect that the Constitution does
not protect lifeless publication do not
foreclose inquiry into cases which might
involve the use of libel laws to impose
sanctions upon expressions criticize the
critical of the official conduct of
public official well now huge didn't
leave that kind of an opening in his
decision but then we went on the whole
did we not remember less state libel
laws are available to the public
official if he can prove actual malice
is meat
if you hold that and I say you held it
only for the purpose of civil law yes
and I say that there is a significant
distinction between taking this Negro
preacher and given him four years in
jail for saying that they're not being
treated right by the judge in the
prosecuting attorney and giving somebody
a right to sue for some actual damages
under those circumstances I make that
distinction very frank
[Music]
we knows it's a lie and he killed it
anyway and he doesn't do the express
purpose of the
there are people like
girl me and my sniffing this fella be
open
well sure on the answer so far it has
been a label that's the big liability so
this is libel law well I didn't mean to
put it in a form of a label except that
I meant that the label had a meaning
well now the leading you will find for
instance in John Stuart Mill which was
quoted I think by Mr Justice Goldberg in
The Times case if I'm not mistaken who
said that in the broad field of public
affairs that is part of the game he said
that a long time ago that people
unquestionably failed to tell the truth
from time to time and know they're doing
it but they do it during the course of
public discussion and that in a
democracy like that of the United States
does not give a cause of action
certainly a criminal course applies well
that's what I mean by so really to serve
the truth we should protect the Lyle
exactly I go all the way on your
constitutional protection for the know
that I think it was intended by the
framers of the First Amendment that that
should be the case you may mr. Joyce
that's the old notion it can't stand the
heat stay out of the kitchen
exactly
I think that's part of public life in a
democracy and I think it's a good thing
that it is I'd like to reserve few
moments
mr. Chief Justice justices of this
honorable Court I would like to say with
all due respect to Colonel Dodge that he
has confused the facts in this matter
in this particular case and with the
court's permission I'd like a few
minutes to tell you exactly what the
facts are and exactly how they came
about and I feel it very briefly and I
think that you will find that the record
bans me out when a defendant in this
case ran for District Attorney he made a
public statement that this fines and
forfeiture fund was should be corrected
after he took office he met with the
judges and this is in our supplemental
brief he met with the judges and
discussed the matter with them and
agreed that a better system should be
worked out upon the misrepresentations
of the district attorney the defendant
in this case to one of the retired
judges over the payment of a rope are
copied this judge wanted verification of
the price of the carpet he was refused
the approval of this expenditure the
fines and forfeitures goes into a fund
handled by the district attorney in
Orleans Parish in order to get money out
of that fund
he sends a copy of an auto over to City
Hall which is approved by the Ogden and
he takes it to one of the judges to have
it signed after this misrepresentation
there were several other
misrepresentations and this is all
brought out the record and in the
testimony so the judges in order that
they were couldn't be played against one
another they met and adopted this
so-called 5x8 rule now he knew all this
at the time he knew it when he
campaigned he knew it activists and he
knew that the statements he was making
about being a so-called being blocked by
bias and so forth were in error because
of the fact that from the time that they
met with the fire by a rule at which he
was present
the judges approved some close to
$50,000 of money for him to use in
so-called vice investigations in
addition to that he had 12 policemen
assigned to him by the chief of police
and this is in the record who were paid
by the city not out of his payroll who
worked at his direction therefore there
was no possible way that these judges
could have brought any investigation
that he made he had all kind of money he
had all kind of personnel including his
own investigators so and he made the
statement that they blocked his
investigators that is not true and he
made that statement deliberately knowing
it to be false now let's talk about
vacations he said that they weren't
working that the jail was for the
district attorney in the state of
Louisiana controls the docket he
determines who where and when they will
be prosecuted the judges have nothing to
do with that furthermore in Louisiana
courts just as this Court does not work
on Saturdays and Sundays that's 104 days
out of the year the Constitution
provides that the courts would take
Criminal Court's will take two and a
half months vacation
which is another 75 days now 17 legal
holidays you add those up it comes to
196 I plead he claimed that they were
taking 206 days vacation well they had
to take a hundred and ninety seven days
vacation there's no way that they could
do anything about it and I think that
this court realizes and appreciates that
well you have a criminal district court
without golf clerks and without a
library that it's certainly going to
take them some time in addition to
sitting to look up the various legal
points that come before that court
knowing all that he became irritated
apparently to retired judges statement
over the question of this road and he
called a news conference on November the
second and he just said everything in
the world but the chief thing that he
said was that all of this so-called
blocking his investigation and taking
vacations and so forth that this raised
interest
questions of racketeering influence and
no other questions now after that
happened the judges filed an affidavit
against him charging him with defamation
under the same statute that he is now
being prosecuted he had one of his
assistants walk into court and dismissed
that which the district attorney has the
right to do as I said to this court
previously and I say in my brief here
was a situation where judges were
accused of being practiced and I agree
with the court or one of the justices
that made the remark that if he is
guilty and that he's got no business
being a judge so the eight judges
petitioned me because I have authority
over district attorneys to come in and
prosecute him on a bill of information
it's our position but if what he was
saying was true they didn't have and
they weren't fit to hold off so I filed
a bill of information because I thought
that it was my duty and I had to do it
because that is the only way that the
state can prosecute an individual it's
got to be done in the name of the state
if you and I if I walk over and I
slapped you and you filed a charge
against me for simple battery it's got
to be in the name of the state because
the state stands for law and order
you can't take law into your own hands
such as your instance about saying he
cheats at the golf course what is that
man going to do is he going to take a
gun and go kill this fella you can't do
that in our particular society so
continue continuing I filed a bill of
information against him to give him the
opportunity to prove his charges after
the Bill of information was filed or
November the 13th or 22nd I think it was
he made a speech Catholic school meeting
in new audience and he went through the
same charges he accused these judges of
being influenced by racketeers he says
there's no other reason and he said that
he was going to keep shouting to the
public because he had no other allies
because the other officials belong to
the association of armed robbers and
incidentally in the meantime you
several reporters all which is in the
record that it wasn't nothing but a
racket that the only way he could put
these sacred cows back to work was to
tell the public about it when I tell you
that the record bears out that he knew
that there wasn't any truth to what he
was saying and then he didn't have any
reasonable idea
our remote consideration that what he
was saying was the truth
that what
no I don't think so because I think that
that statement would be one that may
have been made in the reason for this
was the truth now my statute provides
this the defamation is a malicious
publication our expression in any manner
to anyone other than the party defamed
of anything which tends to expose any
person to hit to definitely depute and
to deprive him of the benefit of social
intercourse now it provides the
privilege an actual malice must be
proved regardless of whether the
publication is true of all in the
following situations where the
publication our expression is in comment
made in the reasonable leave of its
truth upon a conduct of the question in
respect to public a fast now mr. Joyce
was talking about the Cox case let me
say that the two cases on the docket
25 what involved the right to picket in
the city of Baton Rouge which is not
connected with this case at all the
other one involves will right he issued
a parade permit by the city of Baton
Rouge which doesn't involve this case at
all and the Cox case which was decided
by the Supreme Court which is not
reported and I looked just before it
came in it's not before an evening that
bad sheet he was charged with defamation
of a district judge for this reason that
he said it was common knowledge that
oppressed Negroes who appeared in judge
Blanche's Court had to pay a fee which
you need to judge Blanche's benefit to
keep from going to the penitentiary now
that's what he was prosecuted for and
one of the defense's among others that
he made was that he had the right to say
anything he wanted about a public
official because he was protected by the
first and the Fourteenth Amendment and
our Supreme Court went into this matter
very thoroughly and here's what it says
it says we cannot agree with the pellet
therefore that the New York Times case
talking about the Sullivan case is
Authority for holding that a condition
that the publication or expression must
be made in the reasonable be that is
truth the privilege to apply violates
the constitutional safeguards of the
First Amendment we view our statute as
being fully in accord with the New York
Times pronouncement conceding that case
of civil libel is applicable to our
criminal criminal defamation legislation
and as foolish safeguarding those
accused under in confirmation with the
First Amendment
our statute permits the qualified
privilege to exist regardless of whether
the publication was true or false when
it is a comment made in the reasonable
brief with its truth upon the conduct of
a person in respect to public the fast
and in such case actual malice must be
proved by the state our criminal
statutory requirements for proving
actual malice are in accord with those
set out in the New York Times case for
civil libel
our statute is clearly constitutional
when measured by the standards set out
the New York Times case to satisfy the
First Amendment
and then it goes on of course arguing
our key window and says this in our
opinion our statute is not Republican
this is the same statute to these
prosecutor Hill is not Republican to the
public to the First Amendment simply
because get recognizes that the public
have an interest in the maintenance of
the public character of public men
public affairs could not be conducted by
men of honor with the view to the
welfare of the country if attacks upon
them could be made at will destructive
destructive of their honor and character
and made wholly without foundation
our statute sufficiently protects those
honestly criticizing their public
officials as to their official conduct
to satisfy the First Amendment but it
properly forbids unjustified malicious
attacks upon them and may I remind this
court generally generated general
Tamilian your statute does apply doesn't
it even if the expression or publication
is true if the actual malice can be
proved in other words our Supreme Court
is now held in accordance with your
ruling that in the prosecution of a
public official for defamation actual
malice
has to be
the time-space to find actual malice
actual malice
as a knowingly full presentation or a
statement in fact for faith in reckless
disregard of the truth and that get out
that's truly I answered yes please
under your statute as I understand if
the statement is in fact true there may
be a criminal prosecution if it will
start the person to faint
that's what I said your group I know but
this is that inconsistent oh no it's not
it's just a question of fact now it's a
question of fact as to whether actual
malice was proven by the state well and
in this case in response to a bill of
ridiculous
but he hasn't let me ask you the
question all right I'm sorry your honor
every time paid rest I think it does on
the falsity basically of the
statement that to be defined
that
because even a fourth thing
that's a subject of a civilized
unless the false statement was made
knowing it was ball or in reckless
disregard whether it was who or not
but under your statute as I understand
even a statement in fact truth may be
prosecuted if the one making the
statement
makes it with ill wills or the person of
the famed
yes and in that instance our court
that's reason why I read you the Cox
decision our Court has adopted and
supported the New York Times view that
now regardless of civil or criminal
prosecutions that when you're speaking
of a public official actual malice is an
essential ingredient of the crime and
must be proven actual malice it was made
with ill will and it was made to expose
the individual to hatred contempt and
ridicule no no no no no no absolutely
not
and that's why this case is
distinguished from the Sullivan case on
the New York Times case the factual
situation here is entirely different
from the New York Times case these
individuals public officials are you
because you recall the Sullivan case
weren't even mentioned by name and in
the Sullivan case one of the officials
of the New York Times had stated that he
had looked into it and he felt that he
had every reason to believe that it was
true but we've got a different factual
situation here in the gassen case right
that's correct you know of any
or that there was reckless disregard for
the food's mistakes that he made other
than the judges fate that of course no
one could make statements about these
these honorable men without having
actual mouth full without having
references regarding the record is the
record is of course the record speaks
for itself your honor but the record has
and shows actual malice in that he knew
or had reason to plead and we proved
that about the vacations we proved about
the Vice we put the Chief of Police of
the new audience police on the force to
show that he had these twelve men we put
the judges on to show the vouchers we
actually put the vouchers in which we
prove the statement was false and we
prove that they were made with malice
yes we actually told him that we were
going to prove malice key in law and in
fact and the district court found on
that in its work well worded opinion on
[Music]
malice in the sense mr. Attorney General
that he knew these statements which were
proved in fact to be fall were false
when he made them or that he made them
and reckless disregard whether they were
true at for wearing that thing is that
at age six 1/3 of volume to the findings
of the law court yes it's about 10 pages
devoting to mass what page to say six
one three starting at six one three it
starts really at six ten in the opinion
of February of the sixth and it goes on
through and his devoted about ten pages
is devoted to it this is the findings of
the trial this is the findings of the
trial court now you see in Louisiana you
only can appeal on exceptions which are
taken to the various rulings of the
court and the lower court opinion of
course deals with it but the details of
actual malice are found in this opinion
by Justice panther honestly it's too
long I'll be glad to read it for you but
it I was really wanting
[Music]
now let me say this the state put on 23
witnesses and the defendant called 22
and the defendant never took the stand
which is not to be held against him and
I'm not urging that now and he didn't
call a single one of his witnesses and
every fact that the state of Louisiana
proved was absolutely uncontradicted and
is there without any contradiction
whatsoever
yes in other words it says that you have
a qualified privilege where the
publication or expression is the comment
made in the reasonable brief of its
truth and then upon Eve the conduct of
the person in respect to public affair
so yes I agree with that I definitely
agree with and I call to your attention
the fact that the state of Louisiana in
this case advise the defendant they were
going to prove malice both in law in
fact and actually did so and now our
Supreme Court has come along and
answered the very thing that you just
assisted speaking about now and I'm
going to have a copy of this sufficient
copies of this made and sent it to you
and I'll be very happy to do it
now I will have this one copy I don't
need not be done but I have some notes
on here which other oh yes
well this receipt relieve me of the
necessity of sending further copies in
I will be very happy to do so your honor
our city will be very happy to do so I
suppose that that's about all I can see
this particular case now I accept - I've
got the Greek islands
[Music]
in green versus United States which is
cited at page 147 of the opinion of the
Supreme Court this Court held that
criminal contempt cases but not subject
to jury trial is a matter of
constitutional right misdemeanor and how
the law is defined as an offense the
punishment of wit is necessarily a fine
or imprisonment in the parish jail or
both and in this particular case I think
the maximum fine is $3,000 on one year
and it's adapted and coach in the Cox
case they've only sentenced to one year
in the event they fail to pay the fine
not to now we of course in state versus
hedad which is cited in the opinion of
the Supreme Court went thoroughly into
that question and our Supreme Court has
found that as long as an individual
charged with the misdemeanor as the
proper guarantees such as the filing of
a bill of information the right of
cross-examination the right of counsel
properly in time and so forth that there
is no violation of his constitutional
rights and that misdemeanors can't
constitutionally be tried before judges
no we weren't talking about court wasn't
talking about libel they were talking
about a criminal statute
[Applause]
for my answer my answer to that of
course is that there is no violation of
an individual's rights without a trial
pipe I mean before a judge because the
rights that he's guaranteed under the
first and Fourteenth Amendment can't be
justice thoroughly tried before a judge
in fact better than it can before a jury
and that is what this Court held in the
objective Cabella style are you
pronounce that then this quantity of
books but mr. mr. Attorney General
I think I'm correct with even before our
Constitution England had introduced the
jury trial requirement as a safeguard
against abusive criminal libel does that
have any relevance for us in attending
the festival no it does not absolutely
not because our Codel system was drawn
up of course our court approach
procedure was drawn up might I ask that
to the First Amendment does that have
any significant lower I do not end up
trying to answer your honor because
there's no case in the Louisiana
jurisprudence or the federal
jurisprudence up on this court that says
that it adjourn is required as a result
of the privileges guaranteed by the
First Amendment now if this Court says
so it will be something absolutely Deno
well my question is is in fact isn't
that something we're going to happen
beside in this very case maybe the first
time
well it may be but I don't think that
it's necessary I don't think it's
necessary to sustain this conviction and
I don't think that after you read this
particular record and you will find out
that this accused rights were violated
in any way but me but I do agree with
you that there's a lot of things that
you could go into in this case of an
entirely entitled him to a jury trial he
didn't get it although he insisted on
well he did not get a jury trial that's
true and if you if you do that well then
we'll probably have to go back and try
them again but there are a lot of things
in this case that you could go into as
as a matter of de novo I mean for
instance with the Fourteenth Amendment
there's several things that you could go
into but that has never yet arisen in
any of the cases that have been decided
either by this court or by our Louisiana
Supreme Court now if you do that I will
say this that you're going to oppose a
tremendous burden upon the states
because then every misdemeanor every
traffic ticket every battery simple
battery case or every case will then
have to be tried by a jury and Louisiana
is one of those particular states that
has consistently held and it's been
tested in the courts that an individual
being tried by a judge before the judge
alone for a misdemeanor that all of that
refused rights are thoroughly protected
as a result of that particular trial
procedure and I say this again that if
you if you do do that you're going to
force us to rewrite our entire
Constitution on that particular point
statute that has to be shown you had
obviate quite obvious as this gentleman
didn't approve the judges he didn't
think they were good judges he didn't
think they were oughta hold their jobs
and so forth
is that enough oh you have to prove that
what he said was a result of ill will
and a result of malice and then it was
done deliberately I mean personally oh
well - oh yes and a keen your honor it
comes to the reading of the entire
record because when the man says that
the only reason that they're doing this
is because they're influenced by rocket
airs and when we say the influenced by
rocket dis that means that he's
influenced necessarily by a man of ill
repute and it indicates of course that
he could have taken a bribe and then to
father show his state of mind
we never didn't have the opportunity to
prove him or his state of mind that he
didn't take the stand but then
immediately after the charges were filed
he makes another statement in which he
says it's a racket
he says if I had to do it over again I'd
do it I would have no regrets I continue
to do the same thing he continues to
call on sacred cows he continues to
mallanna he continues to say that it's
nothing but racketeering questions and
influence that there's no other question
involved that they're an association of
armed robbers and just a few days before
his trial he again repeated the fact
that these judges were influenced by
racketeers so when you assume that all
of that was introduced of course to show
the question of malice which was the
only way that we could have proved it so
when you lump all that together I don't
see how any court could find and I think
the district was quite properly found
that these statements were malicious
because we proved that they were not
true we put the judges on the stand did
you read this statement of November
second I did is it true no every one of
them said the same thing and we asked
them have you been subjected to ridicule
yes we could before say what that was
because that
than hearsay as between the individual
to criticize them and this particular
defendant but we did prove that we prove
that in every instance we prove that the
statement was false in syntactic and
that it was made with Madison understood
you to say though that under your
statute even if it was true and done
with malice and use defined malice as
ill-will that he would still be guilty
under your set was I understood you to
say that under your statute even if what
he said was true if he said it with
malice namely with ill-will toward these
judges that it was punishable well I
don't think I said that because well I
thought your statute says that the
second paragraph of section 48 and you
said yes to that question at least six
times
second paragraph of section 4
yes I agree with that yes and now let me
ask let me put a hypothetical question
to you then suppose a judge approached a
litigant and urn and they told him that
for a certain amount of money he would
decide the case in his favor and the
litigant became outraged and had
thorough ill-will toward the judge from
that time on and exposed him to the
public and stated that as a fact that
the judge had solicited the bribe from
him
in order to decide a case in his favor
he did it intentionally for the purpose
of discrediting the judge in the eyes of
the public under your statute would he
be liable oh yes he would yes the
building manager yes and in addition to
that wait a minute you mean you mean if
if the individual was prosecuted for
defamation yes no I don't think he could
be convicted under that set of
circumstances I do not I absolutely do
not because he would have a complete
defense he would have a defense of the
truth the statute says for the store
Clause that's correct
to expose any person to keep it
attempted review of the surviving and
the benefit of public confidence of
social medical section
planted among other places on page 3 of
the appellant brief
second paragraph has to wonder which
references
and it will here's what it says we're
such a publication or expression is true
actual malice must be proved in order to
convict the offender yes the state
statute does say that Toronto but we've
never had a case like that to happen
before and I believe that you could
actually prove that he had solicited a
bribe I don't need to take a convicted
of defamation and in addition to that
they judge a Pacific this bobble for
seasons coming in that mr. Chief Justice
Warren your hypothetical situation of
course I've got dancers that live
because that's what it is but that
doesn't apply to this particular case
because this particular case was made
upon predicated upon the fact that the
state witnesses defendant made were
false and they were known to be false
and were proven to be false I understand
that I was just testing out the extent
of your the limit of your statute since
our that's all I had
who may you have a few moments would you
could you take them now I really just
say one thing in connection with the
matter of the jury trial Fox's libel act
in England was 1792 and undoubtedly the
discussion which formulated itself into
Fox's libel act was part of what into
the First Amendment at least that is a
Oh many year that had been going on
since before William Penn was tried and
so on yes that was a cumulation which is
just as much a part of the history of
the First Amendment as it is a Fox libel
Act itself
number four hundred Jim Garrison
appellant versus Louisiana mr. Gooch
Chief Justice when it please the court
appellant is the district or prosecuting
attorney for the parish of Orleans which
is coterminous with the city of New
Orleans Louisiana he was inducted into
office about two years ago and following
that induction set himself two goals
first was an intensive attack to go
active gwc set himself to gold yes the
first was an intensive attack on a
backlog of criminal cases awaiting
disposition and the second was a
campaign against commercialized Vice in
New Orleans Bourbon Street section under
Louisiana law all fines and forfeitures
in criminal cases go into a special fund
under the control of the district
attorney for the payment of the expenses
of his office and certain expenses of
the Criminal Courts and he may make
expenditures from that fund under the
appropriate statute on the approval of a
judge of the court such funds had always
been used to pay for investigations made
by the district attorney on approval by
a single judge and that applied to his
predecessors in office and it applied to
him during the first few months of his
incumbents it's the only source of
to enable with attorney to make
investigation there is a provision under
which he is supplied with police
officers by the city of New Orleans they
are not funds which he uses for that
purpose of personnel paid by personnel
paid by the city is made available to
him aside from that this well actually
that is not a fund given him preventive
this is the only fun as such his own
salary doesn't depend upon no no he is
salaries of state salary paid this is
for what we might call incidental
expenses sending people over in
extradition matters to other states and
paying for furnishings of the office and
the author actually for the officers of
the judges and so on and so a short time
later however the judges met on bond and
adopted a rule there eight of these
judges adopted a rule under which such
expenditures would not be approved
except on the concurrence of five of the
eight judges and not long thereafter
they discontinued altogether the
approval of expenditures for Vice
investigations this was some months five
or six months after he took office how
long a term of his turn four years I
think and he was first elected in 1962
well he took office I think in May 62 we
have a kind of a
irregular system of the elections with
primarily primaries yeah but so he's now
serving is four years now sir he was
then and is now serving his first
elective turn
correct a few days later after this fund
was cut off one of the recently retired
judges of that Court made a statement to
the press
charging appellant with responsibility
for the backlog of these untried cases
he had been in office as I say a few
months that on the following day the
newspaper reporters came to him and
asked if he had any comment to make
about this statement and it was in
response to that request that he made
the statement which is the subject of
this litigation and recently retired
just recently retired he was actually in
office when appellant took office his
district attorney he retired between
that time and the time of these ends our
appellant said in answer to this
statement by this judge in substance
that it was the judges who were
responsible for the backlog of untried
criminal cases that they had been taking
excessive vacations that they were
endeavoring to block his Vice
investigations and that their attitude
and now I quote may it please the court
raises interesting questions about the
Racketeer Influenced --is on our eight
vacation minded judges in the record
it's right in the very beginning
great 7/8 of releases now it's yes it's
but that's not in full in our brief if
you will look at page 27 of the
transcript it the it is quoted in full
27 at SEC goes through to page 32 at
that point given in the text of the
indictment or other the bill of
information which was filed against now
on petition formal petition of the eight
criminal court judges the Attorney
General of Louisiana filed a bill of
information charging appellant with
criminal defamation under the Louisiana
defamation statute and the Supreme Court
of Louisiana appointed a judge from
another district to try the case trial
by jury was denied under the Louisiana
constitutional provision to the effect
that a judge alone may try misdemeanor
cases mr. eight a timely demand for a
jury trial
we have formal motion on page 38 of the
transcript and formally denied and that
point was formally taken up on a feeling
so fast
under this particular statute $3,000 for
one year in jail for both now let me say
there are apparently some mistakes one
in the record somewhere in one in the
attorney general's brief leaving out the
word for both actually it does show in
the original part of the Attorney
General's brief but later on it is
quoted again and apparently an error the
words for both are left out I think
they're extremely significant in light
of the recent barn that decision but it
has also left out in the opinion of the
Supreme Court unaccountably those two
words or both pardon I didn't understand
you to say what's the significance that
well you know you talk about petty
offenses may be heard without a jury
here you have a maximum penalty of
$3,000 or one year in jail or both I'd
like with what actually was a felony
you mean the sentence in this case was a
fine of $1,000 or in default of payment
four months in prison for life
now as I say trial by jury was denied
under this constitutional provision and
a that was exception to that denial of a
federal doctor this was passed on by the
Supreme Court again on appeal I think
that wrestling pardon on federal
peaceful day
oh yeah there is a little but there
doesn't snow question raised about it
the sixth amendment was mentioned and
then it says the motion says or the
sixth and fourteenth are mentioned in
that motion but it also goes on to say
in the alternative under the freedom of
speech provisions also without saying in
so many words the first and fourth this
is not really a criminal intent this is
not a contempt case at all this is a
criminal prosecution for defamation
under a specific state defamation stack
or a misdemeanor
I'm not assume you're not making that
distinction
[Music]
it is a prosecution and it is a it is a
prosecution without a jury our courts
that sort of advances my point a little
but I'll get to it again if I may also
his pleas under the first and Fourteenth
Amendment that this statute so applied
violated the first and Fourteenth
Amendments with regard to his right of
free speech was also specifically
overruled and again it was passed on by
the Supreme Court on a field and so on
the judge found appellant guilty
sentenced him to pay this fine of $1,000
or four months in jail a stating that he
did so under the mitigating
circumstances of the case and that he
would be less than Frank and I'm quoting
if he did not say that the defamatory
statement might not have been issued
without some provocation which that goes
into this question of mouth the Supreme
Court affirmed that held in substance
that there was no violation of the first
and Fourteenth Amendments on free speech
that have found no provisions in the
Constitution of the United States
requiring a trial by jury under such
circumstances and because Louisiana
treats defamation and contempt as
separate offenses it is unnecessary for
us to consider the issues behind the
phrase clear and present danger under
the opinions of this court which deal
were there which have dealt with the
offense of contempt malice is an
ingredient of the offensive it I know it
says malicious publication from what's
happening
that raises interesting questions of
statutory construction and really is not
directly pertinent here because the
state took it upon itself to prove that
there was malice without raising the
point whether it had to do so or not and
there was a finding why are you making
any effect on the sufficiency of the
evidence of malice I am insofar as that
word was given a definition by this
court recently in the New York Times
case I mean what I have just said this
Court held in the New York Times case
that actual malice was a deliberate
misstatement of fact or a reckless
disregard as to its falsity there is no
such finding we submit in this record
there is a finding in a word of mouth
and I'll come to that if I may of malice
under that definition I think I can
clarify that immediately by reading a
short paragraph on page 633 of the
transcript from the opinion of the trial
court at the the first full paragraph at
the top of the page after making the
finding of malice on the preceding page
the judge said however were it conceded
for the purposes of argument that he did
have a reasonable belief as to the truth
of the statement and his statement was
entitled to be considered a qualified
privilege I am of the opinion that the
state has proved actual malice in its
many definitions etc in other words even
if he had says he a reasonable belief
belief in the truth of what he was
saying I still find he was actuated by
malice that could not be the malice
which this Court recently defined
[Music]
well when the under Louisiana law as I
understand it I trust you'll forgive me
this is first criminal case which I've
ever had any connection but as I
understand that any sentence of more
than one year is not served in the
Parish Prison and I think that would
straighten that out I'm wrong about that
I'll be happy to stand correct that's my
understand but there is no question that
a misdemeanor is one that goes up to one
year now we do submit may it please the
court that the validity to give Michael
I just like the fact if I may for one
second with this malice but is it your
suggestion that the way the court
phrased that where it conceded for the
purposes of argument that he did have a
wreath of the belief that the court was
suggesting that he did in fact and he
they Courtney Lee gave the fact if you
will read Mr Justice Brennan on the
preceding page toward the bottom there's
long fair says he thought I'd have wheat
that we had any honest reason he puts it
of course in the form of an inference as
I cannot understand that he could have
any other he doesn't make it a finding
of fact and then he goes on but even if
so he's actuated by malice anyway even
if he believed it was true so he's not
talking about your kind of mount well
what I want to get to was was this if we
should agree with you that at least this
suggests an ingredient which is contrary
to the test
we stated in The Times case with that
entitled universe but I think that alone
knows that there are many other grounds
but on this ground alone well you see in
The Times case you didn't make a finding
with regard to a criminal case at all
you were talking about the right to
recover civil damage no I'm only
assuming from what you suggest that we
should agree with you is it the malice
pastor that for this statute as it was
in the kayak down that assumption what
I'm trying to get to is whether you
think there's sufficient departure from
the times tested valid that you'd be
entitled on that ground alone assuming
the time specified to a reversal I stand
on that yes you do think yes of course
and I was just starting to save perhaps
indirectly in that connection that we do
take the position that the application
of a state criminal libel statute
especially when employed as a sedition
law with regard to criticism of public
official simply can't be reconciled at
all with the principles of the First
Amendment
passing through the fourteenth with
regard to a state statute that's there
seems to have been considerable
controversy on that subject in this
court I don't have to go all the way
with the proponents of that principle
whatever my own views are but in this
particular case you've got a general
criminal libel statute being applied as
a sedition now of course you're limiting
this now this is this argument that
little public official right as far as I
have to go that's right Albert what is
your actual faith that this is a
tradition law that this is being applied
as a sedition because
criticism of the public of a public
official cetera but in there
well of course the arguments made on the
other side that it is not really about
there what does our brief say well I
don't think there is the slightest
question that when you say a judge took
a bribe if that's what you're safe with
since that's not involved in this case
you are certainly talking about the
judge in his official capacity whatever
reflections you may be casting on his
personal characters no suggestion in
this case so there's no bright question
here at all I'm using that for
illustration no they didn't even say
that that I this raises interesting
questions as to our weather our vacation
minded judges are subject to
racketeering influences for something of
X he did not say it about each and every
one unless you want to read this thing
with great care an oral statement made
the reporters who said as to whether our
ate vacation mind the judges are subject
to racketeering influence
does the court you just can't survive
maybe destroy
who's that Christmas
people criticize me well I think perhaps
I confessed stated by stating sir that I
stand with you and your views on that
subject as heretofore express I take it
I don't need to elaborate on that
statement I should be very happy to do
so I have read every word written on the
city now I do say that the opinion of
the Supreme Court of Louisiana was
rendered of course before the New York
Times case the Supreme Court of
Louisiana relied on the statement in the
Beauharnais in Prior cases which said
libel is not covered for the First
Amendment you will straighten that out
to my satisfaction in the New York Times
case stating the juror expressions in
the beauharnais and other cases to the
effect that the Constitution does not
protect libelous publications do not
foreclose inquiry into cases which might
involve the use of libel laws to impose
sanctions upon expressions critical of
the official conduct of public officials
and incidentally Mr Justice black you
have a in our brief a statement by mr.
justice Breuer which takes that question
about destruction of courts by criticism
of judges and applies it to the Supreme
Court of the United States and says it
is it might be used as current fiction
perhaps because it no such thing could
possibly exist
I remember the version that
I remember that reference to now I do
call your attention if I may to a couple
of matters which you have not had
occasion at least to put into your brief
that into your opinions and which as far
as I know have not been in briefs before
this court in analogous cases for
instance that Madison in the Virginia
resolutions on the Sedition Act of 1798
that it would seem a mockery to say that
no law should be passed preventing
publications from being made but that
laws might be passed for punishing them
in case they should be made gets back to
this question of previous restraint not
being the full scope of the First
Amendment and governor Morris with
regard to the Zanger acquittal said that
the germ of American freedom the morning
star of that Liberty which subsequently
revolutionized
America and Dean pound said the same
thing he cited in an article a case of a
chap in England who had been convicted
for saying that a certain justice of the
peace was quote a buffle headed fellow
and Dean found says it was that sort of
thing that led the colonies as soon as
they could make a frame of government
for themselves to put these provisions
with reference to the liberty of the
press in their bill of rights a
criticism of a judge or justice of the
peace in that case now then came the
Sedition Act the Federalist ruthless
enforcement of its provisions and then
this is something else so far as I know
that has never been mentioned in that
connection a resolution was introduced
in the House of Representatives to
repeal the second section of the
Sedition Act it was approved in the
house it was passed in the House by a
vote of 50 to 48 on the loan
Federalists vote of John Marshall who
very nearly wrecked his political career
by that statement because he went
directly against his party he was the
only Federalists in the Congress which
had a majority of federalism which went
along with the repeal of the Sedition
law now in 1940 attorney General Robert
H Jackson refused to institute a
prosecution for criminal libel of a
public official under the District of
Columbia's criminal libel Act stating
that that would constitute embarrassment
not consistent with our support of the
freedom of the press and it is therefore
Department of Justice policy that we do
not institute that kind of action
actually on statistics which we have
cited in our brief it is shown that the
larger number of criminal libel actions
recently instituted throughout the
United States have been for libel of
public officials that is as Sedition Act
after all this Court has held uniformly
now in a number of leading cases
out-of-court criticism of judges may not
be punished as contempt without trial by
jury and in the absence of a clear and
present danger of interference with the
administration of justice we submit that
you cannot change that rule in a
criminal libel prosecution without a
jury simply by calling it labeling it
from Anna libel or sedition instead of
contempt of court we submit there is no
real difference there now the question
of malice is really the only other one
whether this court intends to substitute
that rule for the clear and present
danger rule which I'm sure it did not in
the New York Times case and or whether
perhaps it means
to add that point to the requirements
amongst declarant that president danger
rule we submit that in any event there
has not been a finding of malice as I
stated a few moments ago within the
meaning of that expression as used in
the New York Times case that the
prosecution in the case that far
violated the first and Fourteenth
Amendments and that the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Louisiana should be
repelled now the trial judge did say he
said it is inconceivable to me that the
defendant could have had a reasonable
belief which could be defined as an
honest belief that not one but all eight
of these judges of the criminal district
court were guilty of what he charged
them with in the defamatory statement
you say he didn't characterize that as a
finding but he said that certainly it's
very clear-cut conclusion that the
question he made us not telling the
truth that knew that he was not telling
the truth
that's the fight he said I cannot escape
that inference or that conclusion yeah
it did not make it a specific fight I
cannot escape that conclusion then he
says I can only conclude see they even
made no findings or that's correct on
that well now in view of that finding by
the trial court which I gather you don't
specifically take issue with why isn't
quiet I don't take issue with a flip-top
issue where they relax oh yeah and you
stay on you will say so here you are
under your own decisions will examine
the findings of fact and we trace them
in the brief yeah see in a controversy
of this sort started let us say when the
for immediate purposes there was stuff
proceeding all this that I have
mentioned there was some more afterwards
if you look for instance that note three
on page six of the Supplemental brief
our supplemental brief you'll find a
speech which you made a cover the
appellant made a couple of months later
talking about
the these excess vacations of these
district judges and so on that he felt
himself bound to tell the people of New
Orleans a truth the only way he could
get the sacred cows back to work was by
informing the public as to what they
were doing now a public official
Underwood versus Georgia sean has a duty
to save those things and in our opinion
can't be charged with malice for saying
it
well I'm just going to the trial court's
finding that the defendant knew what he
said that what the defendant said was
false and that the defendant knew it was
false I don't treat that as a finding
sir but that we begin to get into
semantics there I think it is simply an
inference on his part and not a formal
finding but that even if it is we find
fault there's evidence there's hundreds
of pages of evidence here there he faces
it if it's a common ordinary thing for
men to think that someone else violet
the disagrees with the view that he
violently old either has to be dishonest
who are you going to get down into the
knowledge that what a man absolutely
I what are the West Region is one of the
facts on which he bases well the fact
that he made similar statements on other
occasions which showed that he was
repeating and that that could be
engendered only by malice that's why I
call my conclusion rather not fine far
as it's truthful did he say that because
the man said it and kept repeating it
did it's bound to be a fault oh he made
one other I'm not going to try to say
that I'm going to give you now all the
evidence on which that was place because
there one hundred hundreds of pages of
evidence but for instance he said he
couldn't conceivably have believed that
all of these judges were subject to
racketeering influences and he made no
exceptions when he made his statement he
takes that for instance as an addition
of maps what he taking you ditional
knowledge there did he have some hibbity
on which debate said well I assume he
knew the judges but I assume also that
he tried his case on the record I have
no fault to find with his going outside
the record for that purpose I call your
attention in the New York Times case to
footnote I'm sorry I don't have an
official copy here but it's footnote 13
citing John Stuart Mill on Liberty
stating that there just has to be
misstatement from time to time in the
course of controversy in public life and
that that's not in effect evidence of
malice because it says very fine people
do that time they've done now if there
is any mistake when the fact here in my
humble opinion it it could be found only
by construing these words in a certain
way in which in my opinion they were not
meant and I just don't believe they were
meant that I could cover that in New
Orleans the people in LA
political fights among them may I quote
depth of Chamber of Commerce
turning General million mr. Chief
Justice members of the court I think
that the law in this case is pretty well
expressed in The Times Sullivan decision
which states that where defamatory
remarks concerned a public official and
his official conduct that actual malice
must be shown to sustain a conviction or
recovery in a civil suit and likewise to
sustain a judgment of duty is charged in
a criminal statute I have no argument
with that and I said they appreciate
constants marvelous opportunity and
presentation to try to bring this case
under the times rule but as you said in
the times decision that it was your duty
to is not limited to the elaboration of
constitutional principles we must also
in proper cases review the evidence to
make sure that these principles have
been constitutionally applied I'm very
confident that this Court will do that
and I know that when you do that that
you will find here the district attorney
making malicious statements that
attacked the personal reputation of
these judges which subjected them to
hatred ridicule and contempt and which
destroyed that public confidence now
that is the charge that the state made
that they review our defamation statutes
and I ask you to bear in mind that this
is not a contempt proceeding contempt is
defined as an entirely different matter
in the state of Louisiana contempt can
be constructive in the presence of the
court or it can be outside of the
presence of the court such as a
newspaper publishing publishing
an editorial about the conduct of the
court and I might say that Louisiana
recognizes the clear and present danger
because in the case of Graham vs. Jones
which is cited in our supplemental brief
the Supreme Court of Louisiana said that
this editorial of The Times Picayune
percent may have no effect on a decision
of these judges and dismissed the
contempt citation of the times-picayune
but we have no clear and present danger
involved in this particular matter
because there was no question about the
obstruction of justice there was no
question about the fam'ly taurus
statement going to the personal
reputation of these judges and what the
defendant did here
he used we contend that they're there
they go to the personal reputation of
these judges and our bill of information
charged that he willfully and
maliciously made it and that it
subjected them to hatred contempt and
ridicule and destroyed that public eye
because of your saying that the country
[Music]
absolutely it should not be considered
good if just these men happen to be
judges and he defamed them in that
personal category well mr. attorney
general is it conceivable that he'd have
said these things if they were not
knocking I don't understand your
question would he have made these
statements of these men were not in
office a judgment oh I absolutely might
be he would have had no occasion to but
what I'm getting at is this that he
found the defendant filed a bill a
motion for a bill of particulars which
we answered and we charged in that bill
of particulars we answered in the bill
of particulars that we were going to use
the statement in his entirety and we
were going to depend upon the statement
of November the second in its entirety
and that he were asked also whether
these statements statements were made as
malicious
and we answered him that we would prove
that the statements were malicious both
in law and in fact and we put all 22
witnesses to prove that number one the
statement that he made was entirely
false and number two that it was made
with actual mouths and the record is
completely in that particular respect
now let me say this general may I ask
yes sue what what particular statement
or statements are in his press press
release which disassociate these
justices from their from their official
duties in other words what did he say
that can can be said to be only personal
against these judges and not what has to
do with their official conduct well you
have to take the statement in its
entirety and look at it as one and in
there he said that all of these things
about the backlog of cases which I'd
like to talk about in a minute Twitter
and about the crowded condition of the
jail the judges have nothing to do with
that absolutely nothing to do that the
criminal sheriff is in charge of the
jail the district attorney in Louisiana
has complete charge of the docket he
determines who comes to trial when he
comes to trial and how he will prosecute
it all of those statements in here have
to be false and we prove them is false
and then here's where he where he hips
at them at that character he says all of
this the first he says again the message
is clear don't rock the boat son you are
not supposed to investigate anything
well the judges never sent him any such
statement like that they never told him
that they all took the stand and said
that this statement was false in its
entirety now the official that the
statements about official conduct was
conduct with which these judges had
nothing to do with and then after making
all these statements he comes up with
this this raises interesting questions
about the Racketeer Influenced --is on
our eight vacation minded judge
now in the first place those judges were
conducting that court in accordance with
the law it never was proved that they
took vacations they didn't take any
vacations and all we've got to remember
that Court's certain aids require a lot
more time off the bench than they do on
the bench you said they were a vacation
minded that's right he said there were
three bodies vacation minded but of
course if they walk guilty of taking
excessive vacations contrary to the law
that could be indicted and prosecuted
for malfeasance but instead he had a lot
of legal remedies he could have held an
open hearing if he had evidence that
these judges were racketeers or they
were influenced by racketeers certainly
when you say you're influenced by
racketeer you mean you're stating the
ordinary meaning of the word to the
general public and when you say that are
influenced by a racket they are you
influenced by racketeer that means that
some crook is either paying you off or
bribing you to influence in your
decision influenced you in your decision
and it can have no other moon all right
okay I don't think so your honor I don't
think that leads to official conduct
because it's not what truth if that were
true they had no business serving is
judges and that was the reason why I
filed this bill of information against
mr. garrison because if he could prove
that those men were influenced by
racketeers and that they were being
influenced by rocket is they had no
business serving on that bench and it
should be indicted and tried and removed
he had a remedy he could have gone to
the Supreme Court and asked the judicial
administrator of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana to investigate it he could
have brought it before the grand jury
himself if he had that particular
evidence and of course as the trial
judge says I can't find out what's in
mr. Garrison's mind it's a definite he
didn't take the stand at this case he
severe some 22 witnesses and didn't put
a one on we put on 23 witnesses to prove
that he made this statement with actual
malice and an advantage these persons
individually and after we finished our
case
he rested so the facts in this case are
absolutely uncontroverted there's no
doubt about it there's no doubt about
the fact that the judge when he made the
statement it is inconceivable to me that
he knew these statements were false when
he made him because if he didn't find
that under his oath of office he's
required to find a man not guilty so
that's one of the ingredients of the
offense
[Music]
false and malicious statement
because of the fact that we have proved
that the statement was made with actual
malice to injure these people
well we go back to the gray matter that
you're talking that you talked about
this could be yes this could be hid but
you see he was using a qualified
privilege as a vehicle to vindicate
himself against these persons
individually and several of our
historians have made statements
concerning that we had one in our
original brief I don't remember who made
it but he said that the First Amendment
certainly didn't allow an individual in
the right of freedom of speech to abuse
that particular Liberty and Louisiana
law I submit is in complete accord with
the rationale of the Sullivan or The
Times case however you want to let me
briefly run down this fault that he knew
it oh yes absolutely because he
certainly knows the criminal statutes
because he is the district attorney and
he's a lawyer
15:57 provides that he's in charge of
the docket he knew that that was his
responsibility to bring those kids into
the trial not the judges and if a
prisoner was in jail and wanted to get a
quick trial and the DA I didn't want to
bring him to trial he could file a
motion with the court and the motion the
court would then fix a trial date but
you see the reason I say it's within the
rationale in the Sullivan Times cases
this particular reason I called is an
important for our defamation statute our
defamation statute says that defamation
is the malicious publication or
expression in any manner to anyone other
than the product defame to expose
questions to him treat contempt the
ridicule are too bright to deprive him
of the benefit of public confidence or
social intercourse it's punishable by
fine of three thousand dollars not more
than one year in jail now 49 Revised
Statutes 1449 provides this it qualified
privilege exists an actual malice must
be proved regardless of whether the
publication is true or false in the
following situations the conduct of a
person in
the public the fast and then the next
article gives an absolute privilege to a
legislator and a judge in a statement of
a witness stand and so forth and this is
the same statute that you mentioned in
The Times case that was enacted in the
1908 Golemon case when state attorney
general was running for office and value
found that the law was appropriately set
forth in the Kansas case and noted that
there was some 20 some-odd states that
had similar laws and Louisiana I submit
is one that has similar laws yes sir
they're elected for up I think eight
years if I'm not mistaken yes you see
the parish of Orleans has a Home Rule
Charter and the district attorney is
elected at the same time the mayor and
the councilmen are they go in for a
period of four years other district
attorneys in the state are six years but
the judges if I'm 12
they're 12 years in the parish of
Orleans and in other districts in the
state of Louisiana of course they're six
years a alder made that there happen if
they preside over sections that even me
through each and each one has that
particular section and the judge with
the longest service which is Judge
Platteville spent on the bench 44 years
I was 50 years of practice with a long
and honorable career he was one of the
men that was defamed in this case the
one with the longest service is the
chief judgment but now let me was the
basis which started it but did this man
claim him was running in New Orleans
that ought not to run well the word
racketeer means the third gentleman was
talking about when he took office he
promised he was going to close down
Bourbon Street that's pretty good
well I mean that that was his promise
and of course that's in part of his
statements he claims that the judges
blocked his Feist investigations now
it's in this record that the judges
don't have anything to do with Vice
investigations because the state of
losing that the state Supreme Court the
case of state versus Marrero has said
that a district attorney is not an
investigator that in the passage of our
rules and this is in our Constitution in
our law in the fash of our liens that
the police department is the one to make
these particular investigations you made
it that's why he's got 12 yes sir oh
absolutely not
he's got good open hearing he can bring
up file a bill of information you have
he can bring witnesses before oh yes in
the pass for the district judge district
good that's correct if it is it his duty
to charge him about five some crime
that's absolutely correct and every one
every one of these hundred on their
district attorney for that it or no but
the district attorney is the legal
advisor to the Grand Jury and in the
parish of Orleans he collects his
evidence from the police department and
brings it before the grand jury
understand and each one of these judges
got up on the stand and said that they
had denied that they had ever blocked
his attempts they each won one up said
he didn't care okay repeat his word he
said he didn't give up what you call and
it could close everything up on Bourbon
Street as far as he was concerned
because he had no sympathy for them so
that portion of the statement was
absolutely false and we put
superintendent Jerusalem I'm talking
about the statement that mr. garrison
made when he said if they blocked his
attempts to stimulate bison and you see
that's where this racketeering
influenced become so important because
he says that that they tried to stop it
fines and forfeitures fund when the
first be drinking spot was closed down
and that raises questions of
racketeering influenced so when you
consider it his statement together with
the background
it only means one thing that you are
influenced by racketeers you eat
criminal district judges general I am I
understood mr. Deutsch to say that fired
at the time this man was District
Attorney under the law the judges this
group of judges or one of them at least
was in the habit of authorizing
expenditures by the district attorney
for the suppression of price that when
he came in they they had the meeting in
Bank and decided that it would take five
of the eight judges to authorize such
expenditures and that thereafter they
would they would permit no expenditures
of that kind by him is that correct
no it's partially correct let me
straighten that out for you all right
this is all in the record I'm a thief in
in Orleans Parish they have a lot of
extra dishes and a legislature provided
that the fines and forfeitures would go
to the district attorney would be put
into account and he would use after the
expenses of his office as Forex
traditions doesn't say anything about
vice now he would use that Forex
traditions and other general expenses at
the end of the year he'd give keep half
the money himself to turn half over to
the city treasury the law also provides
that he's got to file a motion with the
city clerk saying that I wore $3,000 for
a row and then that he files that with
the clerk of the city court and you
always and then 24 hours after that I
believe it is he goes to the court to
any one of the judges to get an approval
of that particular expenditure it's a
motion that's filed in open court it's a
public record
now what started this five out of eight
business whether it was right or not was
the fact and this is all in the record
was the fact that mr. garrison wept to
this retired judge to get him to approve
this application for this rug and the
judge says I think it's too expensive
give me some proof and in the meantime
this judge went on his vacation and he
went to another judge and told this
judge the judge or Harris said it was
all right
and upon mr. Garrison's statement and
assurance the judge signed it and it
turned out later on to be completely
false so the district attorney was
playing one judge up against the other
and that's when they met with me I say
this mr. black mr. justice black man say
this now before he took office and this
is indirectly he said he thought the
system was bad the judges wanted to
change it he agreed with it
that it should be changed he was present
at that bar board meeting and didn't
disapprove or voice any objection
whatsoever and so then this was the
retired judge what - bill North Carolina
that was a legal vacation because he had
absolutely retired I believe it now and
of course that's when let me say this
that this is in the record - that there
was some seventy three motions approved
by these judges during this controversy
that gave him over over I think
sixty-five thousand dollars to operate
on so how could there be blocking his
efforts as to what he wanted to do if
they were approving that much expenses
for it then in addition to that he had
12 policemen who were paid for by the
city at his beck and call to use as he
saw fit to investigate to do anything we
put the folio super-dead understand and
he said that he picked the 12 men on I
thought my vanity the defendant picked
two 12 men out and the defendant had
them and that he hadn't interfered with
the activities that they reported to him
and did what he was supposed to do so
all of that is in the record to prove
that this statement that he made on
November the second was absolutely false
now let me go to his question of malice
he said that they were subject to
racketeering influence on the same day
he said that they were taking vacations
and that that wasn't nothing but a
racket he said something about one of
the judges to be charitable he's a lie
then he said the only way to get these
sacred cows back to work is bring this
to the public
then he made a speech at a Catholic
Church group in New Orleans and he got
up and he repeated the fact he says I'm
gonna continue he says I don't care he
says I'm not gonna let any judge stop me
he says I don't care what they say he
says I don't care whether we have purple
robes of red robes or any other current
rule I'm not gonna let any judge get in
my way and I called you attention that I
don't care meaning a reckless disregard
for the truth
he says he's not going to stop his
investigations is what he's talking
about which the judges had haven't done
and we proved that he again repeated
that there were subject to racketeering
influences and then he made the
statement he says I don't care what you
call it he says that's the only reason
they're subject to racketeer influences
then he made a speech after he was while
the trial was up just right before the
trial he made a speech on television he
repeated the fact that these judges were
subject to racketeering influences and
yet he told one of them privately that
he didn't really mean that about him and
he said that another one
judge Wimberly was a real good judge but
then he gets up and make the speech that
same afternoon in which he says they're
all subject to racketeering influences
and there can be no other reason and
when he made the speech to the judge
group he says I'm going to continue to
tell the people of New Orleans about
this he says because I've got no
authorization to turn to he says the
other officials are the Association of
armed robbers you need to tell me you're
going to say that if you keep saying
that you keep repeating that about five
or six times and you tell that to the
public and then to cap it all off he
made a statement after it had all
happened and that's in the record he
says if I had to do it again he says I'd
say the same thing the trial judge says
other officials he was talking about the
judges that's in the record I can find
it just a second
performed to get to that part of the
river
[Applause]
I can't find it right now your honor but
it's definitely in the record because it
was comes in the testimony of business
one of the court reporters were out
there took it all down that comes in the
testimony of
what
19:59 I think 2:59 self-directed you
I'll segue down the page witness of the
court reporter I have no allies because
the other officials are the Association
of armed robbers page 259 was that was a
subject-matter of his speech was his
condemnation of these judges that was
what his whole speech was about that's
what he was talking about now if you are
please I
submit to this court that
our laws are complete the court
precision with this court the solvent I
don't think they're doubt like that
and this court by the state court the
tribe found that he proved that he was
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt he had
every constitutional safeguard afforded
him in the trial of his case we were
very fair about it
judge parlour the trial judge was very
fair about it and if you will read his
decision which starts I think old 610 of
the record you will find that it is
thorough it's completely but his
decision was based on the evidence on
the evidence was given by the 23
witnesses that the state produced and
that's nothing in this record that shows
any of this testimony that these
witnesses produced to be false
it's divided during a trial he said he
was going to take the stand himself but
he didn't the judges got up and said
that that statement was false
judges got up and said that they had
been exposed to hatred and ridicule when
armed even said that who was a member
that knew all new audience after the
club he said every time he walked in the
club all the members in that's not how
to move move move well how much is the
judge how much is a person got to be
subjected to and that's the others had
phone calls you with bad English you saw
and so racketeer and so forth one of the
judges son was absolutely insulted at
school if one of the pupils told his
told us the particular boy judge brain
is boy that your fathers have crook your
father's a thief that's all in the
record and none of it is uncontradicted
not a bit of it if that boy tried for
know your from noise
I might say that the defendant is a very
voluble man he talks a lot he even said
that after supreme court you had a
render the decision is not in this case
he said what were the people he was
written or and incidentally in one of
his multiple threats towards the end of
this matter in January of 1963 he even
predicted your decision he said that he
was going to be convicted in the lower
courts but that the supreme law supreme
court of the clan would reverse you
didn't get the back you didn't get today
but that's definitely in all of that of
course is in this particular record well
I say I get that mr. Tony gonna gather
this 259 that's association of armed
robber that's not part of the charge no
no no no but nobody goes to mallet
that's right that was introduced that
was evidence we introduced all this
evidence to show malice on the part of
the defendant because it was instances
that related to this particular
statement of November the 2nd of May a
maid after Anthony Belliard and
concerning the girth oh yes
absolutely absolutely well
don't fight
anyway well only the issue of malice and
actually chloric you can show you can
show malice surrounding an event by
circumstances that properly relate to it
either before or after the particular
incident I think that's the universal I
have no doubt about that and the judge
only allowed that for the purpose of
showing mouse now first is when the
judge is testified that they were
subjected to hatred contempt deleted you
the judge did not let them say what that
was because he held and that of course
would be hearsay which we know is
correct and of course it was sufficient
for the information in the charge to
prove that they was subjected and that
they knew that they got up and testified
accordingly on defamation thought I
think no I don't think so there's been
none of such a serious nature that I
know I have not yet there have been no
said this is the only one that I know of
but of course let me say this that all
of these conferences that they had the
judges have never had concerning this
matter the judges never got up and made
any public statements he was the only
one and we proved that he made the stick
was deliberate that he dictated to this
reporter that he did it with
thoughtfulness
that's all in mr. Furth Hyde's testimony
and that he repeated it and he let him
read it back to make sure that that's
what he wanted to say and as I say I
mean this very bottom of my heart those
judges will give you a racketeering
influenced they got dope business
state proved its case he didn't offer
any evidence that what he said was true
he didn't offer any evidence that he had
a reasonable belief that it was true and
even so the state showed actual malice
in the presentation of this case and the
conviction should stand and I trust and
pray that we reject this writ on the
grounds that it was the improvidently
granted thank you so much
[Music]
defamation snatcher oh no no no no we've
had frequently years
least we had a case in in Louisiana at
the side of December 16th where I felt
my name of mighty defame the district
attorney and Supreme Court Louisiana
reaffirmed its decision in the garrison
case because the defense is there well
it same as this particular case on the
same day the Supreme Court of Louisiana
reverse the case of mrs. Webster because
she was not allowed given the
opportunity to prove in a statement that
she made was true we've had a lot of
defamation prosecution but the only one
the only one that I was like after there
with any new audience under this at work
that in the state thing about statements
made of a judgment of either state or
federal this is the only case just the
only time that I know of that a district
attorney has called a judge that he's
supposed to cooperate with that he's
under influence of racketeers so I take
it there are there's plenty of
statements now if he would have said
that this this court doesn't know what
it's doing or these judges don't know
what they're doing not something like
that I've heard this court criticized
quite precipitously in Louisiana but
nobody has said that you influenced by
racketeers and nobody's called you
secret cows I said that you belong to an
association of armed robbers I've been
called a lot of things in my official
conduct the district attorney supported
my opponent the last and actually got up
[Music]
though that was introduced to show the
state of his mind that that was malice
at all the way we could prove it was
that he didn't take the stand as you
define another charge on this thing
oh yes I'm pretty sure
but in any event this criminal
yes very much so that the Lambert case
delivered a case the Jones case the spot
that I know of 25 or 30 what do you
think I think that the interest of the
state is exactly what I stated before
that the honesty of these men were at
stake and if they had been guilty of
racketeering influence they had no
business serving on the bench and that
was the reason that the state Emmett
this case you see the judges father the
very best in this was mr. justice white
after he made this statement the judges
filed an affidavit the district
attorney's office and of course the
district attorney can now process any
case he wants he had one of his first
assistants come into court and now cross
the affidavit that the judges made so
then the judges met on Punk and ordered
me to file this as the only way we
could've done it because under the
Constitution of Louisiana the Attorney
General has the interest of the state he
can intervene he can supersede he can
dismiss or anything and how I came in it
came in that because there was no other
way that we could determine the truth of
the matter do you feel in the state of
indicating the reputation of it
I do because of the fact that if these
judges were guilty of those charges they
not only go violating the code of ethics
they were violating the law of the state
of Louisiana and they should be
prosecuted and if I could have found
evidence I investigated the third and if
I could have found evidence that there
was any thought of a bribe or
racketeering influenced by new audience
racketeers on these judges I can assure
you I would approach to the grand jury
the prosecutor in the grand jury
investigation
we didn't have a grand-jury fruit I
think so and I think the proof of that
pudding is the fact that he made these
DNA in this state but on November the
2nd of 1962 false name that there was no
truth in it and he did it because he had
violated the long hours ordered to do
this by these particular judges and
another was of that grid of importance
was that the judges met for ball and
asked me by order would I file this bill
of information because they were anxious
to find out my racketeering influences
themselves that this was a very heated
controversy in in Louisiana city of new
audience and somebody had to do
something about it incidentally mr.
attorney-general have all these other
prosecutions under the festive mood
mentioned and they've been prosecuting
for statements about other public
official you mention the ladies and
Lambert case was a statement to the
district attorney had put a guy in
penitentiary put a prison in the
penitentiary on
that he legally committed to the
penitentiary all perjured testimony a
certain prison and were under these
other prosecutions they also were for
statements of public official
yes
[Music]
yes very not let me in this Lambert case
the district attorney was defamed and we
have a procedure well if the district
attorney is interested he's got to
recuse himself at the court request to
the court and that is if he's interested
in the prosecution you understand and
the only person that can prosecute that
the court has got to find an attorney
within the district who has the
capabilities in the district attorney
and then if he can't find any he
certifies that to the Attorney General
and the Attorney General can assign
another district attorney to prosecute
that particular case or I could go in
and prosecute it myself because I have
that authority general I notice to tell
you that the gist of his complaint is
that there is vice and crime and
corruption on on Bourbon Street
in the Worland is there any truth to is
there any proof of the fact that there
is no such Isis rap floor no no no urban
street there's no I don't I don't make
that contention you are sure I'm sure
that is their place like Bourbon Street
that there's a lot of ice there but
you're just a moment you say they allow
vice there no I didn't say that I said I
presume that there is I assume that
there is because the event several suits
to didn't identify that he padlocked
some of the lace who would let presume
that they would let it who would do that
the police were who were assigned to him
and that these judges somebody must my
body that's only must be his only
investigators somebody would evidently
be lacks somewhere along the line
but you see he claims in his statement
with the judges would you have any
jurisdiction over them no I don't think
so and that would be up to the district
attorney agree after the police
department our deal could supersede that
anyone in oh I could go in there but I
don't make it a practice to run around
state Louisiana superseding district
attorneys and so forth unless they are
actually involved are involved and the
situation is of such gravity that it
necessitates it such as the keys here
but you see he claims that if the judges
blocked his investigations and we proved
on a trial of this case that the judges
did not that that was false that they
wanted to cooperate with him and that
they did cooperate with him that they
approved motions for expenses and that
he had 12 policemen could no good do
undercover work if he wanted and so
forth
the ones who have the responsibility of
policing urban street - they might
there's no doubt about that was out of
it and we're not about that was they if
there was a vice and corruption there
would they be likely on assignment to
him to clean that place that well I
assume that they would be yes that would
be the logical even though as you say
you assume that they permitted device to
to continue with that assumption yes I
agree they don't seem to fit with me
well I can't change the facts your honor
I mean we can't tell you the fact that
there was vice and corruption I said in
my opinion I said in my opinion I assume
that there was and because of the fact
that the district attorney has filed
padlocked proceedings on several places
and has actually closed some of them of
trying to be as frank and truthfully as
I possibly can
well my says here that neither we they
have there no question raised about
expenditures until the first be drinking
joint began to cave in yes that's his
complaint yes but he didn't prove that
he didn't prove that the judges stopped
is his so-called funds until that
happened that was absolutely repudiated
by the testimony of the judges that's
the very point I'm coming to that this
thing was so grave and if there was this
particular charge which really amounted
to bribery by racketeers of the judges
that something had to be done about it
the truth had to come out and that was
proved to be deliberately false by the
testimony there's no evidence in here to
show that that was even did it even
thought that it had a reasonable belief
of that
I didn't have to do it you didn't have I
had that discretion under Article 7
section 56 but as I told no it did not
no one ever asked me to do that they
wanted now frankly frankly I said it's
about superseded in the district
tutorial in the case of Jeff vs. Stanley
our Supreme Court held that the Attorney
General could not supersede a district
attorney who was willing to do his duty
and certainly mr. garrison has been
working hard and has been closing up
quite a few places so I would have no
actual authority to supersede him unless
he had actually refused to do his duty
you understand but no not that I know of
but he claimed that the judges had kept
him from doing this and that was
absolutely false because as I said
previously determine timing and the
record shows that they had Flair funds
available the record shows that he had
these 12 policemen to do his work and
that the judges in Norway had ever
issued any messages to him or any
artists to him to stop his crime
prevention work thank you any more
questions
thank you sir I may have to avoid yes
just a few more moments I think I can
answer your question mr. chief justice
on the record in the first place in the
Supplemental brief question just asked a
few moments ago for the second time in
the supplemental brief of the state of
Louisiana on page 9 the short paragraph
was the second full paragraph on that
page prior to October 1962 expenditures
from the fund for Vice investigations by
appellant office had been approved by
individual judges they had been put our
page 376 of the record one of the judges
is questioned on the subject with regard
to prior administrations of District
Attorney's let me ask you this judge if
you don't feel the district attorney has
the discretion can you point to any
single case in the previous district
attorney's administration that you
refused to authorize meaning as you'll
find in the context these orders for
investigation funds and the answer is no
I don't remember anything so that they
were always approved up to this time as
appellant said when the be drinking
joints began to get close had this man
been elected about five months I think
yeah it was took office in May and this
happen in the record statement was made
in November the record show whether he
ran on a platform of doing
I think the Attorney General made that
statement there isn't any question and
after all it's almost a matter of public
record of which I believe you could take
judicial notice of it's not in there in
so many words here an independent that
no political party there it in any
statement there that he said the judges
were an association of armed robbery
says I have no organization my opponents
are the association of armed robbers he
wasn't talking about the judges that's a
strain that that language won't take he
parted through what he taught the
political organizations which had
opposed him in his election
I have no organization I have no he says
that that's expressive fooling I think I
have no organization my opponents are
the association of armed robber meaning
the professional political organizations
which had opposed him in his election he
was elected pardon but maybe they well I
didn't have it before but you the
sentence before that says I have no
organization that's and that follows
right with I have no organization the
other official or the Association part
where they you know saving was what
people usually call it the deed where
they want to beat it certain that leave
that they were bad people and he was a
good man well I don't think there's any
question you could ask him he would
answer that question affirmative mr.
Tate mr. Deutsch how long was he in
office before this judge attacked him in
the calendar he took office in May this
controversy started three or four months
later that's as close as I can give the
statement which is the subject of this
was the subject of this prosecution was
made on November 2nd published on
as I recall he took office in May now
there had been a building up of the
controversy and statements back and
forth when the retired judge made his
statement charging appellant with
responsibility for the backlog of these
cases that wasn't the first thing that
was said on this subject that had been
going back and forth do you think it
makes any difference whether this
statement that he may be read as an
attack on these judges and their
official rather than their personal
characteristics well I think the
judgment must go with me in either event
but I do think it makes that difference
because it brings it under the scope of
what we have called sedition in the last
hundred seventy-five years David here
solely and exclusively in their official
capacity what would make its addition in
the shall I say appropriate sent I don't
know whether it was an offence for him
to make the statement as to what he
thought this Court would ultimately do
in this case I certainly have had my
very strong views and I ask you to
support yes Carol what he was just
saying about organizations
that's his interpretation of it but he
the District Attorney never did explain
that there's nothing in the record to
show that he was talking about here
political organization so I don't know
what he was talking about but I do know
that he was in a controversy with these
judges and that's when he was the
subject matter of his speech at that
particular auditorium
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you